What're the various operations that can be performed on different data structures because as we learned
in our previous lectures data structures are simply ways to organize our data on our computers and the
data structures that we'll see throughout this course are simply variations of how we stored this data
on our computers.
This information and each data structure has their tradeoffs.
Some are good at certain operations.
Others are good at other operations.
One type of action that we're going to performed with data structures well is insertion add a new data
item in a given collection of items such as us adding the apple item and memory here.
And now the one file deletion we want to sometimes delete data such as remove mango from our list.
Another type of action might be traversal.
And we're going to see this a lot traversal simply means access each data item exactly once so that
it can be processed and other useful one is searching.
We want to find out the location of the data item if it exists in a given collection and then we also
have things like sorting that is having data that is sorting.
Kind of like it is on the left hand side over here versus the right hand side where there's not much
sorting going on at least from where we can see.
And obviously the main one and probably the most important is access.
How do we access this data that we have on our computer.
Now each data structure that we're going to go through in this course will have different pros and cons
for each one of these.
And if we take a look at our big-O Chichi Well we're very familiar with this diagram over here or this
graph and if we scroll down we have all these data structures that it lists and don't get to overwhelm.
We're going to go over most of these data structures and you see that half of them are mainly trees
and variation of trees and within here we see that each one of them has access.
Search insertion deletion average in worst case and because we understand big-O we can see that.
All right we're seeing which ones good for what.
And what is bad for what.
And as we go through our data structures we're going to go over these pros and cons so that you build
the foundation to be able to decide which data structure should I use on your next problem.
We're going to get started with our very first data structure in the next lösen.
I'll see in that one.